Perses (#904)
kiali/kiali.io: content/en/docs/Configuration/p8s-jaeger-grafana/perses.md

---
title: "Perses"
description: >
  This page describes how to configure Perses for Kiali.
---

## Perses configuration

> The Perses community dashboards provides [preconfigured Perses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Perses community dashboards provide [preconfigured Perses
```

dashboards](https://github.com/perses/community-dashboards?tab=readme-ov-file#istio) for the

> most relevant metrics of the mesh. Although Kiali offers similar views in its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
most relevant mesh metrics. Although Kiali offers similar views in its
```

metrics dashboards, it is not in Kiali's goals to provide the advanced querying
options, nor the highly customizable settings, that are available in Perses.

> They are the same as the ones provided by Grafana Istio addon. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are the same as those provided by Istio's Grafana add-on. 
```

Thus, it is recommended that you use Perses if you need those advanced
options.

Kiali, from version v2.15, can provide a direct link from its metric dashboards to the equivalent or
most similar Perses dashboard, which is convenient if you need the powerful
Perses options.

The Perses links will appear in the Kiali metrics pages. For example:

![Kiali Perses Links](/images/documentation/configuration/perses-link.png)

For these links to appear in Kiali you need to manually configure the Perses URL
and the dashboards that come preconfigured with Istio, like in the following example:

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
Kiali will query Perses and try to fetch the configured dashboards.  For this reason Kiali must be able to reach Perses, authenticate, and find the Istio dashboards. The Istio dashboards must be installed in Perses for the links to appear in Kiali.
{{% /alert %}}

```yaml
spec:
  external_services:
    perses:
      enabled: true
      # Perses service name is "perses" and is in the "telemetry" namespace.

>       internal_url: 'http://perses.telemetry:3000/'

Reviewer: would port 4000 be better here? 3000 is typically Grafana, or is that just our scripts?

Author: Right, Grafana uses 3000, I've updated it!
